i could say all those things and there'd
be a part of you that would listen right
because remember there's two parts of
you and then that other part of you
would be like no it's not enough
hello friend give me just one how are
you no of course
i'm doing great buddy how are you
i'm good i'm good i'm good do more let
me just i'm a boomer so you got to give
me a second bro it's fine no don't worry
about it
you're all good all right there we go
and can you can you count to ten for me
of course uh one two three four five six
seven eight oh perfect yeah that was
great so welcome jack sorry i'm gonna
grab my notebook
thank you so much so first uh you know
welcome to the stream
thank you we're honored to have you um
is there something in particular that
you prefer to be called like what do you
go by
i i just go by jack no one pence okay
most people are in fact full name me
which is a bit weird i don't know that's
the thing we usually did as kids and
then we kind of grow out of but i tend
to find i'm full named but no you can
just call me jack okay so welcome to the
stream jack um my name is olok or dr k
and uh i'm i'm really happy to have you
here i'm really glad you agreed to come
on
couple of ground rules first of all
nothing that you you don't have to talk
about anything that you don't want to
talk about
we oftentimes have a reputation for
people coming on and expressing a lot of
emotion but we don't have to do that
i really view this as i'm a resource for
you and so anything that you want to
talk about or anything that i could help
you with i'm more than happy to does
that work for you
yeah brilliant cool so anything that you
want to talk about or anything i can
help you with
this is this is the one where it's
difficult because we are this
i think
you guys reached out to me
in july
and and every time it's been like yeah
i'll come on this week and then
something will come up and i've been
incredibly busy um and i think one thing
the kind of two things that came out uh
one thing that came out through that
process was i'm really bad at organizing
myself i'm i'm terribly if not busy
mentally busy which is a different thing
entirely um like a lot of the time when
people ask me to do things to be like oh
no i'm busy which isn't always the case
i actually don't have that many things
to do a lot of the time but i'm very
mentally busy i don't always know
how to wrap my head around all the
things that are going off at once so you
know that's one thing uh and then i
suppose uh another thing that i i
thought about
uh probably a couple of weeks ago but
i'm i'm a little bit like i've got a bit
of brain fog because i just moved and
i'm like in that process of
you know like still a bit sleep deprived
and stuff but um
i was thinking about um
kind of this like
sense of of of self and like who i am in
terms of i was it was it came from like
a work related thing where i was like
thinking about um how to move forward
with some content stuff and i'm like
well
a lot of people will argue that uh
content creation um depending on how you
do it um is very personality based and i
was like okay great what do people like
what do i bring well and then i just
kind of sat there and i was like i have
no idea what about me makes me i was
like i don't understand that in this
like beautiful um so that was also um i
thought maybe a discussion that could be
interesting i don't really know i don't
have much to add about it since that was
kind of my question it's i have no idea
how to approach that problem but jack
something i thought about i think both
of those are perfect
um so i would love to talk to you about
either of those two things
uh or both
so here's what i heard one is that like
the
subjective feeling of being busy
may be disconnected from what your
calendar looks like
yeah totally
so we can try to understand like how
does that work
you know like what's going on what makes
us feel busy
um can i just tell you a quick story
about that by the way of course yeah
yeah so we had uh so we had a pilot at
healthy gamer that was high performance
coaching so it was sort of like working
with people who were more successful and
so there was a really interesting kind
of theme that came out of that which is
you know some people came into the group
coaching process expecting like tips
and they were like oh like they would
come in they say i want to work on my
work-life balance and so what they were
really hoping for is like a few weeks in
they were kind of disappointed because
they were like i was hoping to be like
more efficient right i was hoping i
could learn from other people who were
like more efficient i'd get tips and
then i could be more efficient and then
i could improve my work-life balance but
then what we sort of realized after
talking with them is that you know if
you were 10 more efficient what would
you do with the extra time
and the answer inevitably was work more
and so
yeah yeah so i think a lot of this comes
from the sort of the idea of like
you know where does mentally busy come
from
um
so we could definitely talk about that
and i think the other thing that is very
important is your sense of self so like
who are you and when you make content
what is it that people resonate with
and um what do you you know how do you
make content that is aligned with who
you are
uh which one do you want to start with
um
or which one's possible
i think the one that i'd benefit more
from is is probably the mentally busy
part
um i think i think that's the one i i'd
rather wrap my head around
okay then absolutely so we can first
notice what's made what's driving your
decision
oh
being more efficient
i'm very
one thing i know about myself is that um
i'm very success driven like throughout
every all of life it's kind of generally
that's the thing i'm striving for um and
i get very upset with failure to the
point like very upset with it it's
something and it doesn't even have to be
very big failure very minute things kind
of i don't have a very good sense of
scale
um i'm very black and white like it's
like uh success or failure and that's
kind of like the binary sort of system
in which everything is one or the other
uh and i know that's not quite right and
i'm trying to not be like that but how
do you know i'm not quite right
well because certain things
it's not that it's not quite right i
suppose it's more that it is detrimental
to me to get so deeply upset by these
things that i categorize as failure and
they're not really that bad like i know
deep down that they're not that bad but
i know also that i'm upset by them and
i'd rather not be because i find that in
being upset by them all i do is i become
less motivated i work less and i stumble
into more failures
which i then
like
you you know what it's like this cycle
that perpetuates yeah let me see if i
heard the cycle correctly you kind of
screw up
yeah you tell yourself oh it's not that
big of a deal you can bounce back from
this don't stress about it don't worry
about it if you free yourself of
screwing up you can go back to
succeeding
but
the debuff
from screwing up
causes you to screw up more
yes and then maybe even you start
beating yourself up for like why can't i
cleanse this debuff
yeah yeah that's totally it yeah
yeah so that's interesting what do you
think about that
it's i i think it's my my biggest
like not my biggest flawness so that
might not be the right word but it's the
thing i would wish i could get over
because it's the thing that i find
causes me to to i find that a lot of the
time when i'm not doing something it's
like it's because i'm annoyed about the
last thing that went wrong and that's
why this thing's going wrong and it's
like if i could just move on from the
last thing maybe i could put my full
attention into this thing okay
hmm
sounds like quite a pickle jack
uh i'm glad you think so i'm glad you
think it's a pickle as well
yeah but did you think
how does it feel when i say it sounds
like quite a pickle
well at that point then it's like it's
like oh okay then no one else like
it's good that i don't sorry it's not
good i mean it's it's more
normal that i don't have the answers
like i've not been able to figure this
out yeah and all of a sudden if you're
sat there like wow i don't know what you
know it's like well okay that's that
makes me feel like i've not been
there's a certain level of frustration
if you were to turn around immediately
and go this is how you fix that i'd be
like wow if i'd known this for the past
five years then i would have been you
know what i mean if it was such a simple
answer but to know it's not i suppose it
would make you feel stupid
yeah of course yeah i feel like yeah
yeah i don't think you're stupid jack
no
thank you
um i think what you're dealing with is
very hard and i think the reason it's
very hard is because
being the way that you are let me know
how this feels to you it you know it's
kind of like if you weren't so
detail-oriented if you didn't beat
yourself up so much would you be where
you are today
it's that's the difficult question i
don't really know i part of me would
possibly argue no maybe i feel like if i
wasn't as
um detail-oriented like you say i feel
like i'd uh coast more and i possibly
wouldn't push myself um like i do
because i do push myself quite hard
um and i don't mind that i'm quite happy
to be the person that stays up till like
stupid hours in the morning working i'm
quite fulfilled by being a worker
that that i enjoy but it's it's when
um it's the consequences of when that
goes wrong
how
it then screws me up for so much longer
afterwards that that's the problem i
don't that's the part i don't like
how do you feel about coasting
oh yeah no i can't do it i that i'm very
i wish i party wishes i could but then
i'd feel lazy
um and um i feel lazy enough as it is
and that is and i i feel like i probably
do work when you look at it but a lot of
the time i'll be like i feel lazy like
i'm i'm this is to give you a detail
this is a then a week where i felt lazy
and i moved on monday
and then i went out filming on tuesday i
unpacked all my things on wednesday
which i didn't like so did nothing but
unpack all day and i'm like i haven't
worked today
and then i went out filming all day on
thursday
and then friday
i packed some more and then my parents
came to visit and now it's monday
and i've felt like
wow i didn't get much done that week
where really when i think about it where
was the time to do all the things but i
i sat there all week thinking wow i
really need to like knuckle down next
week because i didn't do much and that's
yeah i i feel like we're coming up on
mentally busy
what do you think yes that's yes
yeah help me understand how i feel yeah
i feel like a lot of the time i've just
got a lot of things to be working on
and when i feel it's like that sort of
like test paralysis thing you know when
you've got too many things you're like
whoa well i'm just gonna back off and do
nothing it's like because that's the
easy you know it's like
yeah there's this i know i've got to
like i've got a million one list of
things i have to do in my head and then
it's like right
how do i
sometimes i'll just sit there and i'm
not really doing anything i'm not busy
in that moment but i feel busy because
like well i don't want to be
doing anything else because if we're
doing anything else i'm gonna take my
focus away from trying to figure out
what i should be doing
if that makes sense i realize yeah
absolutely it's also quite a complicated
thought process to explain because it's
a lot of it's busyness and busyness is
difficult to kind of you know so jack i
think it's very complicated and
hopefully you and i can try to
untangle it how does that sound
okay so i'm gonna toss a couple things
out and you let me know what rings true
and what doesn't okay you're our compass
so i'm gonna point the compass in
different directions and you let me know
if it aligns
so
you have this list of things that you've
got to do right because you're a content
creator and you know like okay like i've
got to do this and i've got to do this
and this is going to be hype and this is
going to be great this is going to be
fun it also fulfills you right so it's
not like you're you're like
you know a task master in your mind it's
like oh this would you're genuinely
excited about doing these things
right
yeah then what happens is um
sometimes you can't really act on them
like let's say you've got a move for
example so in your mind you have a
thousand tasks and you've gotta move but
some for some reason
moving never really enters the task list
right it's not like one of your goals
like it's not something you're working
towards it's something that kind of gets
in the way and so as moving so at the
end of the day you have moved zero steps
forward on your task list but you have
moved
yeah and then what happens is you kind
of feel like oh my god like i haven't
progressed because this is my task list
of a thousand things and like instead i
had to waste a day moving
and then
that sort of feels like oh my god now i
like a day has gone by and i haven't
moved forward at all and then like the
next day rolls around and you're sort of
like oh man
you know i should have done stuff
yesterday and i don't know and like man
i could have squeezed something in and
then you start to maybe beat yourself up
a little bit
that in turn could like lead to a little
bit more paralysis because i think
beating yourself up is kind of like a
coin flip sometimes it drives you and
it's like man like totally yeah i'm
never gonna do this again never again
like let's do it yeah jack like let's go
and other times it's like oh man like i
wish i had done it
yeah and i i tend to fall on that ladder
i think more because i have friends who
who i went to advice for and he tried to
motivate me the way he motivates himself
which is harsh criticism which works
great for him because he feels like wow
i can be better that's how he sees it
where i go
i'm just like kind of sigh and don't
want to do anything um so i definitely
that that experience was like yeah no
that's definitely beating myself up
doesn't really motivate me much it can
do of course it can but like most of the
time it just makes me feel
you know like just a bit
can i think for a second of course yeah
different
if someone were to tell you that they
think you're doing great how would you
feel
i i i like that and people have and that
makes me feel good but ultimately
i i i think um
a lot of the time
i then go i'm glad that i'm doing well
by your standards
you know what i mean that's what i feel
like i then i go but by my standards
it's not quite enough like i feel like
it's my standards are different
and therefore that's really good and i
feel like thank god you said i'm doing
well but i'm still not quite satisfied
that's usually what it like boils down
to
i'm gonna go i'm gonna
enter slo-mo for a second okay oh yeah
that's all good
so
when people say they're that they think
you're doing great do you feel like they
don't understand
um
sometimes sometimes definitely depends
who says it there's certain people who
have more credibility in that claim than
others i would say because certain
people
are in a similar position to me
and if they say i'm doing great it's
like well you understand this world and
and what we do and blah blah blah and if
you think i'm doing well than that that
genuinely means something but like
in no way uh offends to them but like
it's saying my parents aren't going
you're doing great i'm like well you
don't you like i'm glad you think i'm
doing well and that's and that's really
nice and i'm it's lovely to hear your
parents are proud of my stuff i was like
you don't understand what i'm doing
fully you don't know this world quite
the way i do and
and
to me i don't feel like i'm doing great
still so what is it that they don't
understand about your world
i just i i mean just the the content
creation stuff i i mean i mean in quite
a literal sense of like it's just new to
them you know i mean they don't quite
understand
what makes it tick exactly and and what
might look good to them
it might not exactly be exactly what it
is you know it's it's it's expecting
them to understand something they've
only just kind of
tried to get their heads around purely
because that's their son's job you know
what i mean so what do you
what what makes it hard for you to feel
like you're doing good enough
like when would you be satisfied with
yourself
and that's what i don't know i've been
asked that a lot and that and someone
asked me to like kind of be like when
would and i'm like
i i think i know like a lot of the time
it's like oh well
let's say
i've done well enough when i know that i
could
retire for example like say i could turn
around and go i can retire right now and
that's it and like not necessarily that
i want to but i could and that's like me
going well i've i've fulfilled my goals
i've as
i think that's the goal right with
working i feel like that's that's kind
of the goal it's like you want to work
until you can retire and then even if
you want to work beyond that at least
you know at any time given point you can
go that's my fix i'm out um and i think
part of me always strives towards that
that's that's one thing in my head but
then what's when
when when is that i don't really know
where did you get that goal of being
able to retire
i don't know i just that in my head that
was always the goal of working i think
you
you work
you earn you earn your pay eventually
you have enough where you go yeah i
don't have to do this anymore and that's
not necessarily to say you stop because
i don't like being lazy but that's at a
point where i can go well it doesn't
really because at that point if i have
enough it doesn't matter if working
brings nothing and it doesn't matter if
it brings everything because i already
had enough so it doesn't really matter
at which point i feel like then maybe at
that point i think i can stop saying
this is a failure and this is
like a success because it doesn't really
matter as long as i'm
fulfilled and like i'm enjoying it um
right now i feel like i'd love to enjoy
it but also it's got to be
like
worthwhile that's that's the thing i i i
like to enjoy the things i'm doing but i
also want them to be worthwhile and at a
certain point you can go well
whether it's worthwhile or not stops
mattering because i have what i need
it's just whether it satisfies me
personally that's it
that's how i feel
fantastic so i think jack we
there's a lot
that i think we can learn here i just
don't know that um i have
the skill
to help you
so i'm gonna lean on you a lot okay and
we may have a lot of false starts
that's so
let me ask you something so let's say
that you hit your target and you can
retire okay
and then at that point you can work and
you can work will be free
because yeah it it could bring nothing
or it could bring everything and it
would be the same to you
right
that's what i like to think i i can't
say that i'll get there and i'll be like
but
let's say that's true because yeah so so
let's let's reverse it okay so let's
look at it this way
when you fail
why does the failure hurt so much
it's because it doesn't advance you
towards your goal does that sort of make
sense yeah it also to me i i'm i'm i get
like in these like this
what if this disappears like i'm very
attached to what i do right now i love
it right and it's like if
what if this is the beginning of the end
that's kind of how it always feels it's
like this weird like it's like the
beginning of the apocalypse scenario um
where i'm like right well this is the
beginning of the end you know i see like
i upload a youtube video it doesn't do
very well right well i'm falling off i'm
gone and it's like well that's a shame i
didn't get to do all the things i wanted
to you know and but it's like
if i reach the point where i have done
all those things or i am at that point
then all of a sudden doesn't matter if
it starts declining i'm i i did what i
needed
i'm with you so let me let me kind of
put it this way like
whether it brings nothing or brings
everything hurts right now
because there's a big difference between
those right
and so if you make a youtube video and
it doesn't do well then that falls into
the brings nothing camp and it has a
consequence
as a result does that make sense
yeah yeah but what we're sort of saying
is that once you check your boxes for
retirement then you can make something
and it can bring nothing and you can be
okay with that right
yeah okay
so then i know it sounds kind of weird
but let me give you a scenario let's say
that you've got a hundred million
dollars i don't know how much you need
to retire no 100 billion dollars or 100
million pounds or whatever it sounds
enough
in your bank account
and then you make content for a year and
you're making content and it has no
consequences because you've got your 100
million pounds in the bank account right
and so you're making content you're
making content for fun it's like some of
it's succeeding some of it's not
succeeding
and then you're okay with that because
it doesn't matter you've got your 100
million pounds
in the bank account right
so you can make content freely
you're free
and that's what i'm really hearing is
that for you the goal is freedom
freedom from needing to worry about the
consequences of your actions is that
fair yeah yeah i'd say that's it yeah so
you make content for another year
because you're like i don't know how old
you are but let's say like by that point
you're like 24 how old are you i'm 19.
okay great so let's say 20 million
dollars a year for the next five years
easy
and then you're retiring at the age of
24. and then for the night and then
you're like what am i gonna do with my
life you're like i don't know i'm gonna
just make content for fun you make
content for two years and it's lots of
lots of fun and you enjoy yourself and
you achieve what you're shooting for
okay these are your visions not mine
and then
at the on your 26th birthday you realize
that there's been some kind of financial
theft some identity fraud and someone
has stolen 95 million dollars from you
now
and not only did they steal it they
stole it two years ago so you've
actually never had it
right yeah
what do you think about like do you
think that
your enjoyment
like if you kind of look back in time
like you still enjoyed yourself even
though you really didn't have the money
you just sort of believed you had the
money what do you think about that
yeah no i i feel like if someone could
turn around now and promise me that
it'll be fine like it doesn't matter
there'll be ups and downs blah blah blah
but like at the end you will be fine
this will work then yeah i stopped
worrying again it's purely just the kind
of like
i find that worrying
is not only just unpleasant generally
but i find that it also inhibits me from
doing the things i enjoy because it
tends to to
cause i i don't know how to describe it
just you know let's do it just inhabits
um
and
i think i just
i always yeah i just strive to be free
of it i think that's all it is i think
that's that's kind of always been it
really
yeah so this is the terrifying thing
okay now this is going to be hard jack
because the first
is that
you being free of it has nothing to do
with the amount of money in your bank
account
no and i kind of know that as well like
i think yeah that was and it was an
abstraction
i'm with you there's more to it than
that but yes let's yeah right so i i
think that like like whether something
brings nothing or brings everything
has to do with your conception and the
standard at which you're trying to
fulfill
and i think the truly terrifying thing
is that if you really want to be free
from worry you have to learn how to
coast
i think yeah
right because once you have 100 million
dollars in the bank account what are you
going to be doing you're going to be
coasting
yeah and and i think that's that's the
thing i i think i deep down really would
like to coast oh yes but right now i
can't justify it like i can't justify
guessing and i've never been able to
there's never been a point in my life
where i feel like this is right now is
the time to come
that's never came and i would really
like for
myself to feel like now's the time
and
yeah so now i'm going to ask you is the
time to coast determined by something in
here or something out there
in my head it's out there but i want to
say that perhaps it really should be in
here like maybe i should make that
decision but i feel like it's out of my
hands to a degree sure so i'm really
glad you said that i'm really glad you
didn't say the quote-unquote right and
bs answer which is like oh like coasting
is like it's all about like yeah you're
in inner environment no no
right no
so there's a level at which you've like
kind of got to
be able to live sure absolutely so so
i'm really glad that you got an
authentic answer and i want to be
careful with that word should
because i think that you're correct that
honestly i hate to break this to you
jack but i think that retirement is
going to be a goal post that moves for
you
you're going to you're going to go a
certain distance and you're going to say
it's not enough
right and this is where like we can kind
of go back and think a little bit about
your 19 now how old were you when you
started streaming
17.
and what were your goals when you
started streaming
yeah
not this at all not even to do it as a
job it was it was just to do it for fun
and then it became a job and then it was
like oh well no i know what it was it
was doing it for fun and i was like wait
i can leave my
debt like my it job that would be great
this is so much better than doing it and
then all of a sudden when this became a
job it's like right now i've got to be
successful in this
you know because before it was be
successful in the i.t job but sure now
it's flipped
and so i think that this is i don't
think you need to you know detect like
become internally
enlightened right away
i think it's okay to be attached to like
external things but i think deep down
it's gonna be tricky because what you're
gonna have to do is things that
there's an overlap between
doing things that make you feel lazy
and being like internally satisfied with
what you do
does that make sense
i think we're gonna have to move i'm not
gonna suggest that you become lazy but i
think sometimes you beat yourself up for
things that are probably actually okay
yeah and and oddly enough it's almost
like if you want to
this is why it's hard i'm trying to
thread a lot of things together so
when you feel like you're not doing
enough
and that you beat yourself up and then
you fail again right you with me in that
mindset
the problem is in order to let go of
that second failure like the debuff
it has to be embracing the things that
make you feel lazy
does that make sense
yeah no i think i get what that means
yeah so like if you want to free
yourself from the mental burden of oh my
god i'm screwing up you have to move a
little bit more towards like accepting
like what you call feeling lazy i don't
think it's actually laziness
those two things are at the opposite
ends of the spectrum
and i think if i ask you to do that you
will
kick and scream you don't want to do
that
so
i think i possibly
no it's best for me but i don't think i
would naturally fall into it yeah it'd
be a real challenge
yes yeah that's what i mean so i think
you've already figured out that this is
like not ideal and at the same time
you're gonna fight it like that's just
that's how that's why it's hard jack
because it isn't a simple answer it's
not like you're doing something wrong
and you need to do something right it's
actually that you're doing something
right and if you want to move forward
you need to start doing things that are
wrong
sure that's why it's hard and very few
people figure it out and it's like a
struggle for humanity
um
what
no it's the struggle for humanity line
was like wow that really made my problem
big
what do you mean
oh it feels i don't know i feel like um
i'm also um very inclined to um
kind of see things as per i kind of
forget that other people struggle with
the same things
um a lot of the time like i i think i
have a very like
they look fine they're doing fine they
don't have this this worry that i have
most likely i don't it's unrealistic but
i feel like when you look at people
i don't often assume so when you say
humanity i'm like
this isn't this isn't just me
it's it's not just you what do you see
when you look at other people jack
um
it really depends i feel like i see
there's certain people so this is the
thing i i i think i do compare myself
quite a lot um
because um i was always they always this
is something that everyone always quotes
as being like the source of a problem
but i'm gonna bring up this cliche of
like being being the kid that did well
in school
and what happens is uh you leave
and all of a sudden especially in this
sphere with it it's huge and there's so
many people i'm not the best at it we're
in school i was the best in most like a
lot of the things i did at least
compared to my peers so all of a sudden
the comparison thing wasn't a problem
because if i compare myself to people
it's like yeah i'm i'm beyond that um
and it was like yeah i'm doing better
than that that's great no one can expect
anything more of you when you're doing
the best that's how i felt but now i'm
in a position where i'm not doing the
best there's also a part of me that is
striving to be the best and as much as i
know that isn't realistic because i'm in
a huge huge sphere of very very talented
people way more talented than myself um
but
there's a little part of my brain which
is like
let's try and be the best at this let's
be the absolute best of this
um
i lost where i was going with that
entire time i felt like that was going
to tie into something well no no you're
you're doing great man so i want to
point something out to you i've noticed
something so this is going to be kind of
a meandering conversation okay so like
what sorry but
have you noticed that you'll oftentimes
make statements about like deep down i
know this but this
or on some level i feel like this but
this have you kind of noticed that
within you there's like this war between
like there's not a conflict yeah yeah
i'm very conflicted a lot who are those
two people like you get the sense
there's two people
in there yeah no okay yeah i think so uh
and it's probably uh the part of me that
just wants to like enjoy things and
purely like purely just enjoy things
like that's it like that's all i want to
do if i'm doing something i want to do
it for maximum enjoyment whether that's
working whether that's anything it's
purely for me and there's a part of me
that's like
you you need to be able to live and you
need to do well and you need to succeed
and like it's trying to balance those
two but i find that the succeeding one
tends to trump the enjoyment one
and i don't know why but i've got this
weird idea in my head that the success
is more important than enjoyment
like i like as much as i i kind of know
that that shouldn't be true because i
also um
if i if i was to sit down and get really
like philosophical and discuss like
what i view life as it's like it's
ultimately all down to just making the
most of of whatever you whatever time
you have so you should enjoy it right
but like i also don't want to shorten
that time or whatever by um
you know being unsuccessful which in my
head is how it works which possibly is
is a very big leap
but
so i'm i'm gonna name the two parts of
you and you let me know if these fit
so one is the part of you that knows
what is true and the other one is the
part of you that knows what should be
true
oh wait hold on those that's a very like
subtle wording difference between the
two things right so what you know to be
true
and what should be true oh okay right
yes no totally okay yeah yeah is that
fit yeah love it yeah yeah
yeah hmm
so this kind of goes back to your sense
of self
right
because i i think you're not going to be
able to figure out who you are when
these two things are so like i mean
that's a huge gap man what you know is
actually true like what your actual
experience is what your mind tells you
hey man moving is a waste of time
yeah and then there's the other part of
you that's like like i have to move
though
yeah but but the other part is like [ __ ]
it
yeah no i don't have time this is taking
time and i don't i don't want to do it
like yeah yeah i mean
just i know that to be the case because
i i've had this house since the 24th of
september i've been paying for it since
then i moved this week because i've been
pushing it off because i've been busy
and i've been like i don't have time to
move yet and it's like it you know it
was so stupid eventually got to the
point where like okay i'm being dumb i'm
being like i i own a house that i'm not
using i should go and live in it um but
it was like it took me nearly two months
of like
and i i i said it was because i was busy
but i think it was ultimately just
because i i knew i'd do this but i'm
like this is a waste of time
yeah so i think um when you get caught
between what you know to be true and
what should be true you feel dumb
what do you think about that yeah maybe
yeah
dumb
let me think yeah wait i think that
might be the right that might be the
right one but i'm just trying to think
about it um
yeah
yeah dumb
yeah right because you said like this is
dumb i haven't moved in
yeah like i that felt stupid like like i
felt really dumb i'm like i i i could
move i mean i lived with my parents i
didn't have much stuff to move and it
was like just just pack it up and move
and i didn't pack it up till the very
day before because i booked my removal
van i'm like oh i have to do it now like
that was how i motivate myself to do it
it was like right well i put the van so
i have to get this stuff packed before
it arrives i wouldn't have done it
otherwise because that's what i tried to
do pack it and then book the van it just
never happened i just wouldn't do it
yeah
so i i'm also noticing so i'm just going
to kind of rephrase that again i think
when you get stuck between these two
things
is when you end up
it doesn't sort of matter because like
you're always letting one of them down
right if you're stuck between the two of
them
or you're paralyzed and not even moving
towards either one
which isn't the worst
right and that's when you beat yourself
up
so in terms of if we want to try to
understand like okay like now i almost
feel like i should pull out the ipad
here but
so here's on a high level i'm going to
try to summarize because i think we've
hit a lot of good things but i think
that it's kind of confusing would you
agree
sure yeah i'd say it's confusing so let
me try to let's just start from the top
okay
so
you're very mentally busy because
there's a lot of stuff you should be
doing
right and you're very success driven
you're very outcome oriented
so you know what you need to do your
to-do list is probably far beyond what
you're capable of but it's all important
stuff that could get done
and you drive towards it you also
acknowledge that
you know despite the fact that you are
sometimes hard on yourself and push
yourself that you probably wouldn't be
where you are unless you did those
things
right so even though there's a part of
you that wants to change and wants to
relax and wants to coast and wants to
enjoy being 19 years old which
theoretically should be the best time of
your life and i'm sure you were
genuinely having fun too i don't get the
sense that your life is all sad and all
like no no no i do have fun i then just
come away from it like oh wow i didn't
do anything but i do enjoy it in the
moment i'm having a great time a lot so
so that that's exactly beautifully said
right so like in the moment you're
enjoying so there's one thing over here
and you're like all right let's do that
thing and then the second you're done
there's that other voice
that's like hey
dumbass you could have been you didn't
do any of the things yeah right
and so it's almost like any time you
reach towards happiness like this voice
comes in and takes it away from you
and then like then what happens is you
like go towards that person right who's
like work jack work work son
grind boy
and then you do all those kinds of
things and then there's some like voice
inside you that's like hey like
you know like maybe this is not how i
should be living right now and then the
other voice is like no no it's okay you
can do that when you retire we're
grinding for a reason i'm doing this for
you bro
yeah grinding so that you can have fun
later
yeah
right and then like any time so if if
you go towards one side of the pole like
either if you pick one then later the
other will come to haunt you
and so sometimes you're stuck between
the two and then you're and then like
any time you're stuck either you don't
choose and then you really beat yourself
up then everyone's on the same page
then everyone's like hey you're not
having fun
and
you're not being productive like what's
wrong then both the sides of the polls
are like
we're unified we can align over one
thing which is that you're you should be
doing better
yeah
and then i think when you feel that way
you sort of feel done
totally yeah
how is that for a summary so far
good
very good yeah okay that's perfect
so now jack what do we do about that
any thoughts you don't i'm just curious
you don't have to have answers i think
it's really hard
you see
there's a realistic part of me
and there's like the department that
wants to go you know what go towards the
fun one because that's great and you're
going to enjoy your life i'm 19 years
old i got this great opportunity let's
just enjoy it the thing is if i carry on
if i keep just striving for enjoyment
i'll lose it i know i will like i know
what i'll do i'll go out and have fun
and then realize like i didn't do
anything and this is going to disappear
beneath my feet
um
but so the realistic part of me is like
find a balance finder balance is
probably the thing i should be doing but
i'm very
i can't i don't know i'm not very good
at that
yeah so what makes it hard for you to
find a balance
because
oh that's a hard one i don't
so i'm going to think about it or i'm
just going to say
for a few minutes um
i suppose it's kind of the idea of um
which feels more important than the
other
and in a moment i can never really
decide so it's very hard for me to
like to balance it i basically got the
way the thought process works in my head
of balancing it is i i have a dilemma
right over something i don't know say
say someone's inviting me out but i
could be getting on with one of the
million things i could be doing and it's
like right well i'm going to sit there
and i'm going to think i could go and do
that thing
or i could do this thing and in that
moment
i very i struggle a lot to go which one
of these is the most important route to
take for me right now
and sometimes i can sometimes i can go
you know what i've worked a lot recently
these are my friends tonight i should go
do something and sometimes like hey i'm
really behind
you know but when i'm not leaning to an
extreme where i'm either really behind
or i'm really ahead and i'm i'm doing
all right when i'm kind of in that
middle ground of
i could go one way or the other i
struggle to make the decision
okay
so oddly enough that doesn't sound like
balance to me that sounds kind of like
torture
right
what is that fair to say or is that
potentially i feel like it's it's uh is
that how it feels
i don't
that's i think that's where the
paralysis kicks in i don't know that's
where i go
freeze up yeah um so
i got an emotional reaction there i
wasn't sure if that emotional reaction
was absurdity because i'm completely off
base or that was striking a chord
i
i don't know
okay it's one of those things i don't
think i've ever sat back and reflected
on how i feel about that so i you said
it and i'm like god that's quite a harsh
word to use and i don't know whether
it's it's quite fitting or not it was
just a bit of like oh
i've not had a chance to think
so so what i'm kind of hearing is that
like
so let me put it this way which feels
more important in the moment doesn't
sound to me like balance it sounds like
a pendulum
yeah
so what i'm kind of hearing is if you if
you've like
sometimes if you're extreme ends of the
polls
it's very easy to make a decision
because you're like oh i've grinded way
too hard let me swing back this way yeah
it's so of that in that moment it's an
obvious decision it's it's the second it
becomes
not so obvious i've never been great at
making decisions full stops like that's
one thing i know about myself very
important it never is a short time for
you because you're 19. yeah oh no i know
but as as of yet i've not been great at
making decisions so i i didn't mean to
be condescending there but i think
you're you're doing good jack and i
think you got to cut yourself some slack
because okay you know
you're
i appreciate it but but what i what i'm
kind of noticing is like you know you
like it's easy when you're at an extreme
because then you can swing the pendulum
back the other way
but like balance is not a pendulum in
fact pendulum is the exact opposite of a
balance right it's like
swinging back and forth like balance is
this if i can do this it's not going to
bounce okay whatever
it's very hard but yeah okay right
and so i i think what what maybe you
should maybe what concerns you is that
i'm i'm concerned that if we think about
like balancing this pen for example
the tricky thing is that let's say like
this is this is the work end of the pen
and this is the leisure end of the pen
and you're actually like kind of okay
over here the problem is that if we like
are not careful
and you kind of go too far on the
leisure side i get the sense that you
may be afraid that you'll like fall off
a cliff
and so like you you're like oh i should
let myself coast a little bit more i
should let my coast a little bit more i
should let my coast
myself coast a little bit more but if i
coast too much it'll all come crumbling
down yeah and it is like
yeah i like spot like a minor slip like
i'll spot like the littlest thing that
isn't doing as well as it was like say a
week ago and it's like whoa
it's the beginning of the fall and i
like i'll you know like slide back over
the other way yeah so i think that the
reason it's hard because when you're
moving towards balance
i think you run away from balance
actually
and then you get burnt out or fed up
and then your pendulum swing towards
self care
and then you do that for a day or two
and you're like back to the grind like
i've taken a day or two off like like
gotta go back to it and so i get the
sense that it's a pendulum and
furthermore if you want balance you've
gotta like
i know it's going to be scary but you
got to like let yourself kind of coast
like
does that make sense
yeah
okay
um
so
i think the next thing jack that i kind
of want to ask you is like if we want to
understand so if this is the structure
you're torn between these two things
sometimes it's easy to make decisions
but in that middle space it's really
hard for you to make the decisions and
then furthermore in the middle space you
also engage in some amount of like
self-blame
feeling stupid
yeah yeah some yeah i'm not saying that
it's your head is like a toxic wasteland
of just like shame no no
i wouldn't i wouldn't say it wasn't
either that's fair but yeah yeah so i
just want to make it clear i'm not pl
implying that but in terms of when the
debuff happens that gives you task
paralysis and all these other like
negative manifestations i really think
it comes from
something about what we're talking about
is that fair
yeah okay so
so i think if we want to understand
where that comes from i'd like to ask
you about your past are you okay with
that
okay so can you tell me a little bit
about where you grew up or what growing
up was like for you
sure um well i i just moved away from
where i grew up i grew up um in in a
slightly uh it's actually quite a big uk
town it's not very well connected
there's not much going on there so um i
i
had not much going on where i was from
um parents are together um fine you know
i i wouldn't say
it doesn't feel like obviously of course
everyone's childhood has an impact but i
i couldn't say there's any big events
where i'd go trust is a really big deal
for me and this has changed me and this
is
i i'd say i i i grew up
with my parents and um i'd say possibly
i was uh
a bit sheltered uh
in fact no i'd say even now like i've
just moved and i realized i have no idea
how to do so many things and i'll figure
it out because i do i'm pretty confident
in myself but i i'm like i have no idea
what i'm doing um and i'll figure it out
i'm not worried about it but i i do
realize i'm
perhaps a little bit um
under prepared at times
uh and that just comes from yeah being a
little bit sheltered
um
but otherwise
that's i mean if you have any specific
questions you're trying to target and
i'm happy to answer them sure i don't
have anywhere to go so let's just
acknowledge one or two things so often
times people when we think about the
past we think like oh like are we
looking for a smoking gun
you know was there a time where like you
were supposed to be like lead singer and
you're like seventh standard play
and the teacher didn't like you so they
had some other kid do it and you like
right you were filled with the hatred
and resentment and you're gonna become a
super villain in a in a marvel movie at
some point yeah like an origin story
time yeah yeah like it's like you know
hitler didn't get accepted to art school
and so that's why we have yeah exactly
so so i think the first thing to
understand is that for most human beings
like that's not the case like so
sometimes people do have extreme like
you know trauma or whatever
but i still think that for example
the way that you look at yourself in the
way that you navigate your internal
environment
is likely to be shaped at least in part
by some experiences early in life things
like priorities your values what's okay
and what's not okay like you know even
if you think about coast versus grind
where you are on that spectrum
oftentimes is like conditioned
right right so i'm the the child of two
physicians
and so there are like certain basic
things that like were baked into me in
terms of how hard i should study what's
interesting what i should try to do that
like you know other human beings are
like more important than i am there are
all kinds of stuff that's like baked
into me based on my upbringing it
doesn't have to be like traumatic but
it's absolutely no no no of course not
it's yeah no of course no i i i moment
that when you ask about my childhood
there's not yeah unless you're you're
looking for something specific i don't
have anything so yeah i i've got one or
two things i'm really curious about any
siblings
yes one uh older younger
uh younger okay
um and then
well can you just tell me like what were
things like at home i'm not fishing for
anything negative and i'm not going to
make your parents no people or anything
just like
just tell me what what are your parents
like what's it like to
you know they they um
they're very supportive in this um but
um i find that um
they're they're very like
and not in a
this is where it's because i i've kind
of made an effort to understand their
motivation in it um it's not in a
sort of pushy sense but like they want
me to succeed and purely just so i'm
comfortable and happy the same way kind
of i want me to succeed the reason is
very similar but i i feel like they also
will be like like when i when i was at
home
um
i would
i i would be reminding myself of the
things i had to do and they would as
well like they would be like hey you
still have to do this thing like i i no
if i was trying to relax i often found
that someone would be like if i made
that conscious decision that i yeah i've
chosen like i'm just going to enjoy
myself for a bit
what it could it could be disrupted by
the hey you have this thing to do and
it's like yeah and often i'd get annoyed
and they couldn't really figure out why
it's like yeah it's the reason is
because i'm aware of that i know i have
that thing to do
i've already got i'm already fighting
off my own
hey you gotta do this thing to have you
come in and then go you gotta it's like
that like now it's too much and now i'm
annoyed um what what yeah go ahead
uh so that was i think that's something
that um
that's something that possibly
causes me to work a bit more as well
because it's like if i manage to finally
reconcile it with myself the second
someone else comes along especially
someone like i feel with like parents
this is me um probably most people as
well but i
i'm very
even if i know it's not true i will take
their word as almost gospel even if i
know that that shouldn't be done because
i know that they don't always know the
best in my head i i can't shake the i'm
just gonna listen to what they say
because they're my parents and and i've
got this relationship with trust um
so you know even though logically i'm
quite aware that that why would they
know
about that thing like why you know i'm
like yep they've told me to do that
thing that's that's the thing you know
um
so i just want to point out once again
that there there's that thing again
like there's the part of you that knows
that
you don't really need to listen to them
and then there's the con like like i'm
just hearing this like this is the big
thing jack every time i ask you a
question there's always an two sides to
the answer
yeah
yeah yeah and i suspect that much of
your lack of peace
comes from the moment that those two
sides become like uniform you will be at
peace
yeah that that would be if that ever
happens that would be great i can't i'm
trying to think of a time where they
have been and i'm like
i'm not sure it's happened but
yeah we'll get there so and i think that
like you know you'll know who you are
when that happens
because that's one thing i thought about
i that's another thing when i was
thinking about that i feel like a lot of
the time i've been following the
instruction of
in a way my parents because of what i
was saying and then also just kind of
this voice i've just been following what
it tells me to do in teachers and things
like that i very i
i'm very black and white i when people
tell me things i take them very
literally and i kind of fulfill them
to a very accurate degree and and i
found that that
means that
i'm
i i feel i feel like um
like someone who's really great at
taking instructions that's what i feel
like that's me i'm really good at if you
tell me to do something doing that thing
well but i gotta be told to do it like
even with content creation i've you know
i mean this is normal but still i've
sought advice from plenty of other
people and just kind of done what they
said and that's how i got here because i
did i i i'll give myself credit and say
i did what they told me well but
i only felt confident because other
people told me to do what i was doing
it's very rare that i will just kind of
sit down formulate a plan by myself and
you know it happens
how does it feel to do well at something
that someone tells you to do
i mean same as it does do well on
anything i feel like doing well is is
fulfilling i don't think because someone
else told me to do it it's i
someone else telling me to do it gives
me that layer of confidence that um it's
oh no no let me think about how to word
that um
this is the when i used to work a job
right when i used to work like a nine to
five um my only goal in that job
essentially is to
[Music]
like do what the boss tells me to do
to a level of satisfaction that they're
happy with that's it that's all i have
to do it's a very simple role
and all of a sudden now i'm my boss
and
i find it very hard to go jack what
should i do
and jack like like because the thing is
i'm biased towards my own enjoyment
uh i'm biased to go hey like hey jack
what should i do today hey jack go put
your feet up sit down watch tv like you
know where my boss wouldn't do that they
they would keep me at a level of
productivity that is necessary but when
i leave that nine to five job i go home
i do what i want
that like that was the structure that
kind of as much as i didn't enjoy the
job i didn't find like that fulfilling i
kind of liked the structure of i go in i
do what i'm told from nine to five and i
know i've done enough for that day i go
home i do what i want that kind of
distinction
worked for me because it wasn't in my
control
okay so jack this is where things are
gonna get weird because you've just told
me what your internal experience is like
and so theoretically the statement that
you just made is the one that i should
respect and listen to the most
and yet it is the one that i'm going to
disagree with you with ah
which one was that which one was that so
you said that you're biased towards your
own enjoyment so you don't know what to
do it was easy when you had some someone
telling you what to do because you could
just set aside your own enjoyment and
fulfill their expectations
if anything i think this is like the
thing i disagree with the most strongly
yes okay i get what you're saying i
think but the thing is this is where i i
know where you're coming from and i'm
going to explain how i think it works
sure and that is please i am biased
towards my own enjoyment therefore
knowing i'm biased towards my own
enjoyment i do the exact opposite where
i i kind of go no you're being biased
you shouldn't do that and then you do
you know what i mean like i know i was
found naturally yes yeah no naturally i
am biased
over compensate
but yes if we really think about it
that over compensation
is driven by the non-enjoyment side
yeah
so i would even argue that the master
controller up here is not your enjoyment
it is the fear
that you are biased towards your own
enjoyment that causes you to
overcompensate on the other side and
grind even twice as hard
sure
so what's in control there it's not the
enjoyment
no no no no it's it's no it's not it's
not
i i yeah i kind of know that i think
it's just i think jack because i'm
how do you feel about that
i mean
not all that shocked because i think i i
probably did know that um but i think
it's like
yeah you make a good point of because i
because i do feel like that it's like
well
i feel like i i would unchecked by
myself which is a very weird thing to
say but if i was unchecked by myself i
would go off the reins and and just do
what i want to enjoy so therefore
because i'm fit know that i'm like that
which i'm technically not because i
stopped myself but because i feel like
i'm like that somewhere
i do the exact opposite which is a very
i'm glad that you're nodding your head
because that feels like a complicated
system to explain but yeah you seem to
get it so it is the fear
of letting your unchecked degenerate
jack self
go completely wild that causes you to
actually tighten the reins
and i think this is why you actually
like you said it's easy when you've got
someone else to please because in a
bizarre way when you've got someone else
to please like if you have to please
your parents you know they're gonna
watch out for enjoyment jack
you know that they may come and remind
you a little bit
but like at the end of the day like it's
kind of out of your hands
whereas it's much more terrifying to
like hold that balance yourself
yeah i'm responsible i'm responsible for
if i don't do enough
where before like in schools and blah
blah blah it's like someone else was
telling me how much to do and i just
have to do that amount before enjoyment
me can go right we've done what we need
to do let's let's do that now it's like
i have no idea how much i'm supposed to
do i'm just
ah
that you know it's overwhelming yeah
cause because now like um so jack you
said you were a good student right
yeah yeah you got a's
uh yeah yeah are you getting a's now
uh
uh i mean
this is the thing with what we do right
it's really relative
so am i getting a's i don't really know
i mean i i can't categorize it i'm do it
i mean i've got numbers that say these
are good numbers but there's people with
better numbers there's also people with
worse numbers it's
nowadays it was as high as it went now
it's like
the sky's the limit with this
and that's almost worse how are you
supposed to know when you can relax if
you don't have a's
exactly that that's that's a lot of what
i feel like yeah
right it's terrifying
it sounds to me like an unsolvable
problem
because you can never
get an a
in twitch streaming there's no official
authority that says
good job jack you were at the top of
your class
yeah the the only thing that would be
that is if they ranked them all and i
was number one that's the only way i go
i've done enough and i know that like i
know deep that as much as that's so
unrealistic and it's not like it's not
some like sick like here's something i
know that's right here it is again no of
course um and it's not i'm not trying to
argue that i've got like some like weird
like ego like i must be the best because
i am the best it's not that it's it's
if i'm the best then i can't i i don't
have to work any harder because i've
worked
as hard as anyone else on earth no one
else is doing better than me i've done
enough no one can tell me i'm not doing
enough i'm i've
that i'm there but whenever i'm not at
the very very top then there's always in
my mind someone who's doing more than me
and and then i'm like well
yeah does that allow
i i i completely i so i want to just
echo that i don't think it's ego at all
and i don't think you're upset that
someone else is doing more than you what
i think it really is
is if someone else is doing more than
you then you know that you could be
doing more
yes
right so even like you just you and this
comes back to retirement it's like why
is retirement your target i think
retirement is like
cognitively or emotionally the same
thing as being at the top of your class
because then you've made it checkbox
i've done enough
it's always about have i done enough
have i done everything that can be done
yeah and it feels to me like these two
are the same yeah i i'd agree yeah those
those two things are kind of the the two
fulfillment criteria
and the reason i mentioned retirement is
because the more realistic of the two
you know i'm with you i'm with you
yeah i think they're both like so do you
see how there's like a
shared emotional need i'm gonna call it
emotional let's just step away from that
word actually there's a shared need
between those two goal goals that allows
you to relax it's like i'm not allowed
to relax until i have achieved certain
things
okay yeah so now i have to figure out
how am i going to help you with this
do you have any ideas ooh um i the the
the one thing that people have always
tried to tell me is is kind of be
satisfied in little goals like like set
little goals and be satisfied by
achieving those but it just it just
doesn't work
yeah it doesn't work because what
happens is
because i've done it and then what
happens is i i finished one going like
cool onto the next one like it's just a
checklist at that point it's it's all it
does is what you're you're providing me
with is steps between the final one but
ultimately i'm still striving for the
same thing i'm with you because i think
that the the issue here is you've got to
let go of your goal which i think you're
going to
so
i mean
i know i kind of know where you need to
go jack i just think it's going to be
tough
so
or i have an idea so let me ask you this
like um
let me just think is there some other
way that we can get to this
what was it like being in school
um
so it came easy to me for a long time
so it was actually really great because
what had happened was i could get to the
top with very little work and actually
have a lot of enjoyment time
was
most of school and then it got to like
the last
year or two and then it became oh i've
actually got to work to be at the top
because it's now like difficult i'm i'm
i'm in big boy school and uh all of a
sudden there's now less time to enjoy
myself
and
naturally i enjoy it less and i'm i'm
not having fun because i wouldn't let
myself slip from that top position to
compensate for not you know it's like
what i could have done is carried on
having the same level of fun and done
worse in school but like hey i enjoy my
my time and i still did fine or do i did
which is
well i want to carry on getting the the
a's that i was getting i'll work harder
but i hated it
i didn't enjoy it because i didn't find
it to be particularly fulfilling work it
was just
the goal was fulfilling but the actual
work itself was tedious
okay i'm gonna just toss out some words
connect some dots you let me know if it
resonates and i think we may have a way
forward here so first of all i think
you're mentally busy in your sense of
self this is all related and here's how
i understand it
so like
you've got two warning voices
right and in the past those voices have
been
you never had to resolve the conflict
between like
white and black
because
there was an external measure which
could satisfy both sides like once
you're at the top of your class you
don't like you were trying to figure out
okay do i need to study today or do i
not need to study today and you never
had to resolve the internal conflict
because you relied on an external thing
to tell you what to do
yes with me yeah so as you have
transitioned from i school to i.t to
twitch streaming
the external influences that can resolve
that external conflict for you are no
longer there
as a result you were left with the
internal conflict and you just simply
haven't learned because you haven't
needed to and this is the other thing
jack that's kind of surprising is a lot
of people sort of never need to right
because they they move into
work structures yeah without doing this
i would never have had to myself i would
have carried on doing what i was doing
you would have gone for promotion and
then you would have gone for promotion
and then you would have like there's
always a step ladder that some
corporation or school or something else
could objectively rank you at and you
would have been a very successful very
driven very content kind of person
like in a weird way is that yeah
understandable yeah no i i agree yeah so
now the tricky thing is that without
some kind of external grading system
to let you relax
you are struggling with this idea of
how do i relax when is it okay to relax
and that in turn becomes even more
problematic because like there's always
something you can do right like as a
streamer like you can always like check
your socials more you can always
micromanage your the thumbnails for your
youtube videos you can always be dming
people to set up potential collabs you
can always upgrade your hardware and
talk to someone else about a partnership
or
you know a merch launcher like there's
always something you could be doing
so given an endless pile of tasks to do
and given a
complete absence of a grading system to
tell you it's okay to relax
you don't know how to relax
and so you end up with this kind of
thing where you grind grind grind grind
grind and even like in your deepest
parts of yourself you're like this is
absurd this is enough i deserve to relax
and then you kind of swing that way but
then like what happens is you become
mentally busy as you're sitting there
hanging out by the beach with your
friends y'all are chilling
the first 24 hours you're like totally
fine
36 hours you're like hey maybe i should
let me check discord
and get back to one or two emails like
whatever you use twitter dms or
instagram whatever i don't know and the
thoughts start creeping in creeping in
creeping and creeping and creeping in
and then you're like oh i've relaxed too
much like let me start
working again or even somewhere in the
middle there it's like two days in you
start to get conflicted because you're
like oh like i was gonna take a long
weekend with my friends but then you're
like that not paralysis but almost your
parents come into the room and be like
hey
you should be studying
and you're like no i set aside these 72
hours for me to relax and i'm going to
take care of it on monday but then like
that voice kind of creeps in it's like
hey
did you forget you're like no no i
didn't forget like it's accounted for
and over time like this it's almost like
an anxiety kind of builds up and then
other things start to pile on it's like
oh my god like if i i know i took 72
hours for a vacation but like i'm gonna
miss out on this opportunity and then
like this thing could happen and then
like i should be doing this and like the
anxieties kind of grow and eventually i
think a fear sets in
that since i don't know when to relax i
have to grind and grind and grind
because if i don't do it now
it could come falling apart
and i don't know where i'm going to be i
don't know that i'll be able to retire
i'll be able to relax once i'm dead
right it's kind of like this i like this
kind of pressure of like okay like once
i hit that point then i can sort of
relax
and what i'm i'm sort of hearing is that
fear sets in at some point
fear of consequences fear of missed
opportunities fear of not doing enough
and then like also social media and
stuff is kind of
kind of adding on kind of saying oh like
did you see what that person is doing
maybe i should be doing that too yeah
yeah
right so all those kind of thoughts set
in and at the end of the day like you're
kind of where you are which is like very
successful
very grateful i i get a lot of genuine
gratitude i don't get the sense that you
blame anyone i don't get the sense that
you're egotistical but internally i do
get the sense of some amount of like you
don't really know who you are
and you don't know exactly
how long this is there's just a lot of
unknowns and uncertainty
yeah no yeah exactly yeah
and so
yeah
anything that i got wrong or anything
that you want to add or anything you
think we're missing is that you no i i
feel like yeah that's a there's a pretty
good summary there's one thing i suppose
that i might add just there's always
this part of me as well that as i'm
telling you this is like i hope i'm not
telling you
who i think i am and not why why i'm not
sorry
and not what i
like
my words i'm just stumbling a bit yeah
um
i like i don't want to be telling you
all this because there's also a part of
me that is when i'm telling you all this
is like is this who i am or is this who
i think i am and actually i'm there's
little parts of me that are just just
altering things like
am i really conflicted or am i really
just lazy there's that little voice
that's like you know what i mean like
like there's that part of me that's like
i'm telling you all this and that's
great and if this is the case then like
you know i feel less lazy because this
doesn't sound like a lazy person what
you're describing i'm like but am i
picking my words carefully to deceit to
deceive you
because then you won't look at me as
lazy because that's also a thing i would
hate that jack so here's the key thing
this is gonna be hard okay so by the way
you're doing fantastic
we are sort of at the barrier of like
some very abstract weird mental stuff
that's hard to pin down
cool so i want you to think about your
thought just now
i'm gonna ask you a question that i'm 99
sure you're not going to be able to
answer but i want you to just try anyway
where does that thought come from
where's the origin of that
oh this sounds real but
what if i'm just lazy and i'm just
making i'm tricking this guy
to seem like it's okay that i'm doing
this
but
i'm just lazy like where is that thought
coming from
uh
so
i
it's so one thing that makes me feel
better is like you said earlier when
people tell me
like like that ex you right now almost
an external factor that's telling me i'm
doing enough almost like right now
that's what you're kind of fulfilling
and
that makes me feel better
but what i can do as a person who can
because ultimately you only know what i
tell you so what i can do is manipulate
my words cleverly enough to make you
believe i'm doing enough because then
you tell me i'm doing enough and i can
relax it's like in school right i i did
this couple of times in school where i
genuinely was
like it's like hey did you do that
homework no i i i didn't get time i'll
do it tomorrow really i just forgot but
i'm making them look like i wasn't being
lazy about it and making them feel like
i'm giving them some excuse that seems a
bit more reasonable um and it just it
just it people pass less judgment
you know you don't whatever
and
i think i'm losing my train of thought
here so i'm going to try and get myself
just keep going it's like
it's that comes from the part of me that
is like
scared that
what i'm doing is i'm
so when you turn around and it's like
you're not lazy blah blah
there's a part of me that's like
doubting that and going no he's not
lying to you like i don't think you're
lying to me but what i think is that i
have manipulated what i've said in a way
to make you say that because that's what
i wanted to hear and therefore
i'm still actually lazy i've just made
you affirm me so i feel better
and that there's a fear of that
happening and that's i think where i
don't know if necessary that answers the
questions where does that thought come
from but that explains the process very
good so
i don't know if you've noticed this jack
but i've not told you that i think
you're doing enough
have you noticed that no you've not said
those words exactly yeah why don't you
think i've said this i i know i know
uh
i don't know i can tell you why you
haven't what would you feel if i told
you jack i think you're doing a
fantastic job i think you are doing
enough what would happen that's great
that's great that's great and then
there's a little part of me that goes
we're having this discussion naturally
of course so this is this is what's
happening right so if i say jack i think
you're bro you're young give yourself
time
you'll get there
have some faith in yourself how would
you respond to that forgive my sarcastic
tone
but like i i'd be like
it's nice and and it would allow me for
for a period to go
yeah maybe i should
but then what would happen is that but
the thing that so you've you're
affirming me that i should relax and
what happened is are there a stream that
doesn't do great or but i'll sit down or
something just like something is down
and then that affirms me in the opposite
direction
dr k was wrong you aren't doing enough
because here's a number that says so
beautiful right so here's the thing it
comes back to the war between the two
there's the
there's the content you
and the grind you and there's a way of
affirming both and that's awesome and so
if i say that you're gonna do enough if
i say
jack you're so like you've come so far
for your age man
you're such an awesome like you've come
so far like so much to be grateful for
you deserve to relax bro you're 19. have
have the time of your life dude
go out you shouldn't be grinding you can
grind when you're 29. i could say all
those things and there'd be a part of
you that would listen right because
remember there's two parts of you and
then that other part of you would be
like no it's not enough
right this guy doesn't understand
it'll start saying these kinds of things
right because he's not like i'm not
actually like a streamer your mind will
generate all kinds of ideas
to devalue what i say so i've tried
really hard to not engage with that part
and despite the fact that i've never
told you i think you're doing enough
i've never told you i think you're doing
a good job
somehow you are feeling more relaxed you
are feeling like oh i am actually doing
a good job this is okay this is okay
this is the signal that i'm sending you
subconsciously and you are receiving it
and the moment that i send you that
signal and you start to really receive
it
that little thing is like i'm tricking
him
because if your mind convinces you that
you're tricking me then it invalidates
everything that i've tried to say so
i've tried to be a subtle [ __ ] because
i'm talking to you
and i'm talking to that other part of
you and i'm trying to trick it
and now i've tricked you
but it is not buying my bs it detects
what i'm doing and starts to doubt and
starts to warn you it's a warning
because oh my god jack what would happen
if i made you feel like you're doing
okay
yeah i i i could stop doing as much
and then and then all this will
disappear yeah exactly right and that's
that part of you
so here's the thing jack why do you
believe that at the core of it
what i'm getting is that there's a part
of you that believes very strong i know
this may be a stretch
but if you are tr
let me
this is gonna be hard for me but let me
try so if there's a part of you that
tricks p so
two options right one is you're being
authentic right now and you're not
actually lazy and i'm sort of like
you're i'm i'm authentically reading you
and i'm authentically responding to you
and this is truth you with it yeah
sure
and then there's another part of you
that's like you're tricking me
and that invalidates my support of you
because i'm being tricked
but
if you're tricking me
that means
that there's a part of you that
genuinely believes like you're lazy does
that make sense
because the only way you could trick me
into believing you're not lazy
is like
it
does that make sense it's like it has to
come from a belief
yes it does
yeah so where does that come from
like why do you believe you're lazy
why are you afraid you're lazy maybe
that's a better question
afraid i'm afraid of it because i
i don't know i i feel like
and that's maybe one thing that's been
instilled in me through school parents
everyone has kind of instilled in me
that i shouldn't be so i think that's
maybe just like kind of it's one of
those like seven deadly stints that's
like like in my brain it's like
you know that should not be lazy it's
just in my head you know what i mean
yeah sure so i'm gonna ask you a
question jack
when did you when did the installation
of the fear that you were lazy like when
was the how is there how old were you
when you started being worried that you
might be lazy
[Music]
probably at the point where it began to
matter so that would be when i felt like
i had to start working which was towards
the end of school like the the point at
which i felt that like doing well
required work
because what happened was um i wasn't
particularly used to working on things
and i hated it i was like whoa i'm
having to work way more this sucks and
that made me go god i'm a lazy person
because i hate work and i don't think it
necessarily is that it was more that
you know i'm enjoying myself less
naturally i'm not gonna and of course
i'm not gonna like enjoy myself
how humans are um
you know does a story come to mind like
a particular moment or time when you
realize that you're gonna have to start
working
not exactly just just
when i started um
sixth form which i don't uk schooling
it's like the last sort of how is the
last oh uni i would oh how old would i
be 16
i'd be like 16 or 17 at that point
probably 16. is there anything you can
share with me in terms of like concrete
stuff about moments or like just what it
was like being 16 and sort of realizing
you can't afford to be lazy anymore
uh
this sixth form is one of these ones
where like
i didn't realize how much i hated it
until i left and i think i genuinely
have suppressed a lot of it because i
don't remember it very well which is
strange for how recent it is but i it's
all one big blur of just not enjoying
myself and hoping to get through it um
and i don't remember there's moments
where i did enjoy myself but like
overall just the whole experience i
found stressful um but
can you just tell me about that
experience what comes to mind
i just i remember just
being unhappy with it like just being
like i hate this i can't wait to leave
and don't get me wrong i had good
friends and the social elements were
great
when they were
things i could focus on but half of the
time i couldn't so i just felt like
wow this i don't enjoy this i
this isn't great you know it was just a
period that but and i considered leaving
a lot
um
i never did
i i'm not even 100 convinced that i
wouldn't have done covid kicked us out
early and i'm not convinced that i would
have made it to the very very end i was
getting really getting the end of my
tether by the end of it
um but but they kicked us out early and
and that and
they kind of
we didn't take exams i don't know if you
heard much about like what happened in
the uk with that but they just kind of
went hey you know it's not safe to get
all these kids in exam rooms we're just
going to work out your grades from the
work you've done over the past two years
and
you're done have fun
like you've done what you can we're just
going to use everything we've got up
until now um so they kicked us out early
um
and i was like oh wow okay
guess i'm guess i'm done
how did you feel about that
uh a little bit worried because
obviously i hadn't treated
so
there's two parts of me there's like a
little part of you that's worried
because there was no warning to that
there was no like hey
i mean they say this throughout school
but you never really believe it because
it's like hey in the scenario that on
the way to an exam you get run over by
car and break your legs or use your
previous work but like what's the
chances right and then all of a sudden
that thing actually happens was like hey
we're actually using your stuff and
you're like
well i didn't treat this like it was
going to be the thing that design
decides what grades i get in the end
like that's a little bit stressful but i
also knew that these things have been
graded throughout school and i was doing
well so i was like ultimately
i should be fine there's no reason i
shouldn't get a's i've been getting a's
pretty much throughout this i i should
be fine uh at which point i went okay
guess i gotta wait till august it's
march
like and that was it i was done like and
i didn't go get a job i'm like well i
was like well i had you know i worked um
through my summers uh so i was like ah i
i got money i don't need a job i'm just
gonna
enjoy it because
i mean i you know when's the world gonna
be like this again
yes
so you were um
in school and you were hating it right
is that right you were in school and you
were hating it right towards that end
part yeah definitely
there was a chance that if covert didn't
happen you wouldn't have finished school
so
that's the thing would i have probably
probably not i i really felt like i was
getting to that point and a friend of
mine dropped and then i was like whoa
okay that kind of
because i constantly thought about it
constantly
and i but i cannot say i would have ever
done it
because i would you i don't
how would you have felt about yourself
if you did do it
i don't know uh depends what i went on
to do afterwards i think
it would i think i would have had to
wait till the consequence
if it was a if there was an extra if or
i say extremely negative consequence if
i perceived it to be an extremely
negative consequence uh then i would
have beat myself up about it uh and if i
got on fine
i wouldn't i suppose i wouldn't have
cared um
yeah it's like i dropped out of uni to
do this right but that made sense i was
doing well in this and like so the
consequences are good so all of a sudden
it's like great you know like i made the
right decision and i i never think back
on that like that is not something i
think back on and if a scenario like
that would have happened where i found
something that was amazing then great
but if it didn't then yeah i would have
been pretty annoyed
so this is where um
i'm gonna say something that
may be a bit judgmental and is
it's more of a hypothesis than a
conclusion
but
i get the sense like something just
clicked for me so like i think that
what's really confused me this entire
time jack is like where you get the idea
that you're lazy
essentially why don't you have faith in
yourself
because the tricky thing is why do you
need like external things to reassure
you you need external things
fundamentally if anyone out there is
like listening
we need external things when we don't
believe in ourselves right if i doubt my
intelligence and i get an a i feel
reassurance from the external world
so reassurance from the external world
really only like exists when i have
insecurity
does that make sense
so the thing that's been really
confusing about this whole conversation
is i've been trying to understand like
i've thought from kind of early on that
there's something you know why are you
afraid of coasting why are you afraid of
being lazy you know it sounds like you
can really enjoy things and logically
you understand that like you're still
doing well and stuff like that but at
the root of this i'm getting i'm getting
this sense like even when we talked
about the conflict i'm being dumb
that's like that sort of thought that
you have where does that come from where
did your mind learn
that you're dumb because it sounds like
you did well in school sounds like
you're pretty successful sounds like
you're pretty driven i was really
confused about there's some like there's
this like nugget of something which
feels incompetent to me within you
that you believe about yourself and so
you look for these big external things
like if i'm the number one twitch
streamer i retire or things like that
then you'll have such a blanket
reassurance that that thing won't have a
leg to stand on
and i've seen that thing manifest in
your words like over and over and over
again it manifests i want you to go back
and watch this and just listen to the
number of times you say but
you'll say something that's like really
logical and then you'll be like but and
even the most extreme manifestation
which like i've tried really hard to not
be encouraging or reassuring to you
because i had a feeling that the second
i say jack i think you're doing a great
job that thing would have popped up
and even despite the fact that like i
didn't say it to you a single time i've
been sending you like positive
reassuring vibes it still
popped up and it said
yeah hey
you're tricking him
he doesn't really know who you are
and then it's like wait but what does
that part of you believe about you right
why does it think if if you're if you're
tricking me into believing that you're a
decent good hard-working human being
the only reason your mind would think
that that's a trick is if it believed
the opposite does that make sense
so that word trick is very important
because it gives us a clue
to what you believe about yourself and
this also is not it's not like all of
you believes this it's just like a doubt
that's lingering it's a yeah yeah it's
there yeah totally yeah yeah and and i i
think that for me what just clicked is
like i believe that despite all your
success
despite how good you are at grinding
despite all of your parental support
despite all of the faith that you do
have in yourself you know that you're
capable
you could have dropped out of school
yeah
and there's this part of like the and i
wonder if this is sort of it and this
something i leave you with a hypothesis
as opposed to a conclusion because i
don't really know we'd have to have
another two hour conversation but
what i'm really hearing is like despite
everything that you have be proud of
just think about how terrifying that is
for you to like be so smart and be so
hardworking and be able to grind and
still essentially wash out
like that would be such a blow to like
what you're capable of in this life does
that make sense
it's like if you can wash out a school
despite all the stuff that you're good
at like
you know if the tedium gets too much for
you to handle i don't think it's about
intelligence i think it's about laziness
because what would you tell yourself if
you dropped out of school
like
you're [ __ ] lazy
you could have done it you just couldn't
cut it
and i may be like making things a little
bit extreme and i'm kind of doing that
on purpose because i don't really know
if this is connected for you it may not
connect it may just i just may be wrong
here yeah
yeah
but this whole time like of all of the
things that really surprised me jack out
of everything you've said it's the idea
that you could have dropped out of
school
right you describe yourself as a good
student you're a hard worker you try
really hard like you're like easy to set
targets just like if this person says do
this i'm gonna be like the best employee
i can it's simple there's one thing that
has happened which is run contrary to
everything that you've said and that's
you could have failed out dropped out or
been unable to do school
and so something tells me i wonder if
like sort of that core of doubt this
sort of idea that i am lazy this fear
that you could wind up lazy because now
what's happening is you got saved do you
get that
it was like you were losing this game
and then like your your opponent in the
grand finals dc'd
right because covid happened
and so like you dodged a bullet you
never got tested
you didn't know
like sure like logically you're like oh
yeah like i may have i probably would
have been fine but there's some part of
you that i wonder if you like you got
saved like do you feel that way
i don't know i i really i struggled
because i honestly i've there's plenty
of times where i feel like quitting a
lot of things and i never do it
so
you know but that was like i used to say
that
basically every week i'm like i'm not
sure if i can do this i i really hated
it i'm not quite sure what about it i
really really hated um there i think
there's a few elements and i think per
there's just a part of me that there's i
don't think i was in my mentally
soundest place at that point and that
was there was a lot of added stress
anyway um so i feel like
it was more of a mental sort of like i
don't know if i can deal with the stress
of this
sort of thing um and so what is someone
who can't deal with the mental stress of
it what would you call that person
uh
you see my brain's saying weak but that
feels harsh um i i feel like that's not
necessarily like i feel like there it is
again that's harsh but you see that you
see the two sides yeah your brain comes
up with an answer and i think that's how
you would have felt
right
and i don't think you could convince me
otherwise that like if you would have
felt weak
like sure there's constantly told myself
that i wasn't i would have been like no
it's reasonable that you did i would
have done the logic thing but then deep
down no i think exactly right that's the
thing because i think logically you're
doing a good job
but i think deep down and that's where
like so i think going forward you know
here's my advice for you for lack of a
better term the first is to like notice
the butts
so like just notice that sometimes
you're conflicted second thing is notice
that like neither side is stupid
i think like you don't need don't force
yourself to change yet i just want you
to like
like digest this conversation and just
like think about what we've talked about
and notice the manifestations of these
things is there a part of you that
really feels like you know unless you do
this like it is all going to come
crumbling apart
are you basically like
the grind is the grind to overcome like
and this is going to sound harsh the
fundamental weakness that exists within
you
yeah probably like that that sounds
about right i'd say yeah i mean like
yeah i'm very
i'm really afraid of like this falling
apart because i don't know what i'd do
without it i don't know if i could pick
myself back up and just
get on i i i don't know what i do like i
really don't and that's terrifying deep
down jack what are you
i i i i don't want to say it and that's
interesting but
you're you're fishing for week and i'm
and i know that but i don't want to say
it um because i'm like no i'm not weak
i'm i'm offended at the fact that you'd
even suggest it but
i know that's not your suggestion yep
but i i am bringing it out because i
want that reaction right so i i know
you're not gonna say it
because
because even if you if you felt
confident in yourself you could say it
do you get that
right
okay that that's funny yeah yeah right
yeah because like like like jack are you
stupid you could say yes
like you have no problem saying yes
i think yeah i know i could say that
yeah no no no no i feel stupid
i'm dumb
yeah exactly exactly right so that's
confidence
so it's okay like i don't need you to
say it i'm but i'm just bringing it up
and i'm glad so you know it was a good
point it was a good point right and
you're like i'm not going to say it
uh-uh
good
right so that's the problem
is like and it's like here's the wildest
thing which i don't know if you're gonna
be able to accept yet i think it's okay
for you to be weak
i think it's okay for you to be not
enough
i think whatsoever you are i know it
sounds kind of weird like is enough and
i'm not just saying that because i'm not
saying that because like everyone is
enough i don't think that i think some
people genuinely do need to be doing
more in life
i think in your case
i do think you're doing a fantastic job
and i think it's okay
for you to have parts of weakness within
you because i know this sounds kind of
weird i have faith in all of the parts
of you that have overcome that part of
weakness i don't think you need to be
perfect
you can be flawed you don't have to be a
hundred percent and we can still
bet on you
right i would bet on you any day of the
week i don't need you to get an a
i don't need to have an external
assurance that like you're gonna do
great
i can put faith in the part of you that
works hard i can put faith in the part
of you that like you know tries to make
people happy i can put faith in those
parts and i don't need assurances but i
suspect that's going to be quite foreign
to you
yeah no yeah i don't think i'd be able
to i'm very i'm very difficult to
convince without evidence
and it's simple
but that hold on a second i'm not trying
to give you evidence what word am i
using no you're not no what do i have
for you
faith yeah so what is faith
uh i suppose
for one of a better term blind belief
absolutely right it's about the absence
of evidence
so that's my point that's what's going
to be hard for you this is just one
conversation so you've got time you
don't have to figure it out tomorrow
but i think essentially what you need is
like you're trying so hard to fix
everything to reassure yourself because
once you have that thing in the bank
account you don't need faith anymore
because you've got certainty does that
make sense
what you need to learn is how to have
faith in yourself that it's okay that
you don't need to be perfect you don't
have to be number one on twitch you
don't need 100 million dollars in the
bank account that you will actually be
okay like just because of who you are
but i recognize that's foreign so
no but but it's a very
it was very comforting to hear that you
know that was a very comforting sort of
like monologue which i was like yeah you
know if i could really subscribe to that
then and that's not to say i ignored it
either that it did sync but not and it
obviously doesn't change overnight does
it but no no so so i i like that that's
actually progress you know why that's
wholesale progress
because you said if i could subscribe to
that instead of i should subscribe to
that butt
it's very subtle
but that's exactly where you need to be
if i could you need to play around with
these things jack explore them like
navigate them you stop telling yourself
what you should do and start exploring i
know it sounds kind of small but for me
that's like that's a big win
that does sound quite big yeah
right it's different from the way that
you've been talking things yeah like
you just need to figure things out it's
because so far this entire conversation
it's been i know the right answer but
or this is how i feel but it's always
been torn between black and white right
this is the first time that i've heard
you say something that like oh like i
wonder if i can do this it's curiosity
it's exploration as opposed to choice
and very practically i think just give
yourself a chance to you know if you're
feeling paralyzed you know start to like
look in yourself and try to ask yourself
like okay like is this me like feeling
weak is this me afraid of being weak is
this me afraid like do i have that fear
just notice the fear within yourself
and ask yourself what is this fear
driving me to do
and can i set aside the fear for a
little time a while can i be reassuring
right can i be like almost an older
brother to like 17 year old me who is
afraid that i may actually like quit
school and be like hey man like even if
you have to quit that's okay
i have faith that you'll land on your
feet
questions
thoughts
no i
i think it's a good i think yeah
it's a very
i think one you understood it well which
is always very nice because i think it
to me i think seeing it mapped out like
that's great because it's also just a
very confusing
conflicts inherently confusing and and
so to see it mapped out in a way that
like makes sense is great uh and then uh
i think yeah no i think it's a good idea
just kind of
having a bit more blind faith in in
things generally i think i think we've
really focused this inwards but but me
as a person i i probably benefit from
just
believing
things more i'm horribly skeptical um
and
don't believe things more explore
yeah okay sorry yes yes
all right so
yeah don't change who you are jack
you're great bro okay
okay but
you know i think faith sometimes has to
be like found right like i because you
got to be careful because there may be a
part of your mind that hijacks that and
says oh like jack you should believe
more you should have more faith
right right right yeah which is which is
okay that is what you see what i mean
like it'll it'll be it'll be sneaky
and then you'll start beating yourself
up for not having enough balloons
right like logically like people who
have more faith tend to do better in
life so i should have more faith
so
yeah yeah yeah
yeah that's a good that's a good way
yeah right so so anyway i i kind of
torpedoed what you were saying i'm sorry
i don't know but i'm glad you did
because i would have left this having
like seen it like that so yeah
so but do you see like in the big
takeaway i want you to have jack is
notice that there's this thing in your
mind which is going to be like
it's like malware almost that'll like
it'll pop up no matter like what like
even with this discussion of faith and
belief it'll insert itself into that
yes so as best as you can what you
really need to do more than anything
else is just notice that it's activity
don't try to stop it don't try to
control it just see like okay the next
time i'm torn and the next time i'm busy
ask yourself where is this coming from
when you're mentally busy oh god i can't
afford to move
it's gonna come from this place look
look at okay what where why do i feel
like i'm too busy why do i feel like i
have no much no time where is this
coming from and then there's gonna be a
bunch of logic that's gonna be like
layers one two and three and then
subsurface there's gonna be something
else
there's gonna be either a fear that like
oh my god what if this falls apart
some kind of uncertainty some kind of
lack of faith and like even though you
don't have to change it just be like oh
wow there's a part of me that's really
afraid acknowledge it
bring it to the surface instead of
fighting with the logic
and i think the more you're able to do
that the better you'll
all right be
you
thoughts questions i feel like we're at
a good stopping point how do you feel no
yeah that that feels quite conclusive
okay that feels like good advice yeah
that's great thank you i appreciate it
do you like meditating do you want to
learn how to meditate that'd be great uh
yeah i i i find it very interesting okay
have you ever meditated before
it's little bits nothing crazy just this
little dabbling i think um
i i think it's something i was like yeah
i could benefit from that so i played
around with it a little bit yeah okay so
i'm gonna
let me just think for a second
okay i'm gonna give you a choice
do you want to so there's a part i'm
gonna hypothesize for a moment there's a
part of your psyche
that is afraid that you're weak okay
sure just i'm just gonna assume that
okay it may not be true
if i were to give you a choice if you
wanted to understand that part
or digest that part and make it go away
like basically fix it or understand it
which one would you pick
oh
oh that's difficult because like in my
head if i understood it maybe i could
defeat it but then then that would
that's what i thought i'm like oh
understanding it'd be great but then
it's so i could fix it so ultimately
would i prefer to fix it or
understand it that's all neither one is
better from my perspective no it's no no
what instinctively appeals to you
uh no i think i'd like to understand it
okay so we're gonna do a technique that
we do from time to time it's gonna be
called
i call it charging the laser beam okay
okay it's gonna be kind of weird so what
i'm gonna ask you to do is sit up
straight
and then
i'm going to kind of demonstrate we're
going to take our i i don't want i never
realized how unstraight i was sat my god
if you're or how tall are you
uh like five nine okay are you is your
back straight when you sit in that chair
yeah
like straight straight
uh oh hold on maybe it's not actually
now you've acknowledged it hold on
okay i'm now not leading against the
chair i'm just sat straight that's okay
and are you comfortable like this
yeah okay
so this technique is going to have two
parts do you want theory or you want to
just jump into the practice well yeah no
i love theory that'd be great okay so
kind of taking a step back there are
these seven things called chakras or
chakras
and each one is supposed to govern a
particular kind of um
like
part of our being so for example there's
a chakra that governs desire there's a
chakra that governs digestion
so there's some
there actually there's very little
evidence to support any of this chakra
theory
uh there
there is some evidence that their heart
chakra meditations are specifically
useful for treating depression and
compassion but the studies are very very
small we haven't really looked at the
other chakras
so people think i'm a good psychiatrist
which in a sense i am but i think a lot
of the reason that i'm able to do what i
do is because i do a particular set of
third eye practices which govern my
ability to understand and like
give me intuition it's sort of like
leveling up my intuition skill yeah as a
scientist i bel i wonder if what the
yogis kind of figured out is that there
are different parts of the brain that
somehow get like activated or
strengthened by doing particular
meditation practices
and maybe it's not like some sort of
mystical like third eye sight but just
like doing these kinds of practices
somehow enhance our ability to like pay
attention or something like that like i
don't yeah that makes sense yeah yeah
that makes sense to me so i'm gonna
teach you a third eye practice that is
theoretically designed to
give you a sense of intuition or
understanding
right okay
what i can be pretty sure about is that
numerous studies of meditation suggest
that what you do is not actually that
important but there's a set of
scientific highly provable benefits
which you will get from this practice
this includes improvements in focus
attention memory reductions in stress
and cortisol so like those kinds of
things you're gonna get no matter what i
teach you okay so right at the least
you'll get that stuff hopefully it'll
help you with things like decision
making and on the top end if we're
really lucky and all that weird mystical
stuff turns out to be true
then or even some of it turns to be true
then maybe you'll get some kind of weird
like insight into yourself
yes it'd be excellent okay
so this this practice is gonna have two
phases one i'm gonna take my middle
finger and i'm going to hover it above
the space between my eyebrows so i don't
want to touch okay and i'm going to do
this with my eyes closed yeah i'll i'll
walk you through it so i'm just going to
demonstrate okay and then what i'm going
to really pay attention to is the
sensation in my forehead
over where my middle finger is hovering
okay so it's going to sound kind of
weird but you'll feel maybe feel
something so you just want to focus on
your forehead where the finger is
pointing that's going to be phase one of
the practice we're going to do that with
our eyes closed
okay if you happen to get some kind of
sensation there then we've got two
additional steps to the practice
one is to then relax the hand and just
focus on the sensation on your forehead
the second is when you breathe in
imagine
you're going to feel the breath
in your nostrils but imagine that that
breath is going up
and into that point and as you breathe
out imagine that it's coming out of that
point too so we're gonna go
okay kind of thing okay
so i'm gonna sort of walk you through it
i may ask you one or two questions
um just to kind of see where you are
there isn't a right way or a wrong way
to do the practice people have different
experiences okay
so sit up straight
close your eyes
and start by just noticing your
breathing
so go ahead and breathe let's say take
so you're on breath number two
good
give me one more
beautiful
nice slow exhalation
and now go ahead and take you can
continue breathing take the right uh
your right hand middle finger go ahead
and place it
kind of
yeah like don't touch your forehead
but try to bring it really really close
and what i want you to do is like
notice the sensation of your finger
do you feel anything on your forehead
just like
like pressure i guess is it almost if
that makes any sense is it like almost
as if it's being touched but not quite
it's like it's conscious of the fact
that there's something there yep so i
want you to just focus on that you can
try to bring your finger a little bit
closer
oh yeah i moved it quite a lot
yep there you go so now focus on that
you feel that pressure
okay
now you can go ahead and relax for a
little bit
you can let your hand come down and just
focus on the sensation do you still feel
the pressure
okay so we're gonna focus on that for
about 15 seconds
and now i want you to bring your finger
back we're going to do this a second and
a third time
where you kind of bring it over and sort
of feel that pressure let the finger
kind of
strengthen the pressure if you will
and now let your hand come down
focus on the sensation in your forehead
we're gonna go for another 15 seconds or
so
and now for the third round we're going
to hold it there for about a minute now
so really try to point your finger
towards your forehead
for lack of a better term feel the
energy
in that spot
now bring your hand down
so now i want you to breathe into it
so feel that point on your forehead and
as you breathe in you'll feel the
inhalation the cool air enter your
nostrils
go up into your forehead
then as you exhale
feel the warmth come out
and go ahead and do about five breaths
and now what i'm going to do is just
give you a choice
so if you
felt the sensation and kind of enjoyed
that
you can drive your attention into the
spot on your forehead it's almost like
imagine that your mind
is behind your forehead
and that you can focus and concentrate
your mind into that spot
and if you prefer the breath you can
breathe into it
whichever one just feels better for you
we'll practice for a period of about
three minutes
if you get bored of one you can do the
other
you
and now go ahead and take a deep breath
in and out
let yourself start to return to
the world
you're sitting in your chair
in your new place
you're jack
you're 19 years old
notice the facets of your reality start
to come back who you are where you are
you may be hungry you may be thirsty you
may have errands to run
and notice that for a time you stepped
outside of your life and just
existed you are neither success nor
failure
you are neither an a student or an f
student
you may have even lost track of your
name your gender
your job
that these are all parts of life
but there's almost a time out space that
you stepped into
and now put your palms together in front
of you
kind of like in namaste position if you
know what that is so touch your palms
together
and then rub them together rub rub rub
rub rub so you feel heat tension energy
and then cuff them over your eyes cup
your palms over your eyes
take a deep breath in and slowly exhale
and open your eyes while covered by your
hands
and then when you're ready put your
hands down
hi
how do you feel
good
that was good that was yeah no it's very
like
yeah
i don't know what that means but i think
that that's dude no yeah no it was good
it was good yeah yeah yeah
i think the whole point of it feels like
i shouldn't really come out with many
thoughts about it i feel like it was
just like yeah that's yeah right no
that's what i think you did really well
like you're like it was the whole thing
was like
that's the whole yeah that means you're
doing it right so i think that's the
tricky thing about meditation is the
more you describe it the more
it actually confuses people
because if you say oh it was like so
peaceful like oh my god i saw so someone
in our chat said that this felt like
charging a laser beam i think that made
a lot of sense to me
but
sure okay yeah no i get that yeah yeah
no no no you said it yeah i feel that
yeah right it's it's but it's like if i
told you like hey this is a charging the
laser beam practice people are like what
yeah no that's no now i've done it i go
you mean beforehand yeah so overall um
you know if if it worked for you it
worked for you
um and i would say that you can do this
practice for like 15 minutes a day
uh ideally three days a week
i mean yeah three days a week if you
bump it up to about five days a week
you'll get a little bit more benefit
but i think you can do like you know
whatever variation felt right you can
start off
with some deep breathing
you can use the finger to charge the
laser beam but if you feel that
sensation that's really what you're
focusing on and so the thing that can be
used to trigger the sensation or make
you aware of the sensation but once
you've felt enough or your ugna chakra
starts to activate and energy starts to
flow through it you may no longer need
the finger
right um and then you're that sorry your
third eye chakra and then
in terms of you you can decide like if
you want to just focus on it and you you
can hold your attention on it long
enough that's totally fine if your mind
starts to wander you can go to the
breath and kind of imagine like a v
going up into your forehead and exhaling
you can do a combination of both you can
do like you know basic breathing for
five minutes centering yourself finger
five minutes of uh breath and then five
minutes of just concentrating on that
spot and driving your energy into it
and then kind of wrap up
cool
oh by the way i you know i didn't ask
you to tell us like who you are and
where they can find you i assumed
everyone already knew because you're so
big but why don't you go ahead no thank
you
uh i i i'm jet manifold tv on on
everything pretty much i don't think
there's anything i'm not so if you want
to look me up pretty much anywhere i i'm
on most things
so uh and what can people expect if they
come and check you out
uh oh god uh lots of things i tend to
just uh do what i enjoy youtube i go out
and do things twitch i sit to hear and
do things
um that's that's basically it to be
honest
okay so check check check out jack for
like you know someone who sits and does
things or goes i do things i try and be
funny while i do things the things vary
but the the kind of key is that i'm here
and i'm trying to be funny at least okay
awesome man thank you so much for coming
and thank you i appreciate it
thank you and take care man
you too thank you thank you so much all
right bye-bye
oh there we go
all right
you